...what I want you to understand and what I
want you to think is whenever you hear in
the media the term 'Fiscal Black Hole' I want
you to hear fiscal enormous pile of money
because it is not possible for debt to grow
without private wealth growing and whenever
anybody asks you 'how do we pay the debt
back?' I want you to turn around and say to
them 'where has the money gone? who has
the money now? why don't we tax them?'
okay I'm back today we're going to talk
about Debt and the Fiscal Black Hole
Just as we predicted in the very first video on this
channel "howthe rich get richer from covid-19"
government debt has increased massively in the last
3 yearsalso as we predicted at the beginning of this
channel that is now being used by the conservative
government to justify a round of austerity cuts
this is gonna mean less money for publicservices;
hospitals, education, police, local services
um these are all things which have
already been massively cut in the
David Cameron/George Osborne
government 2010 to 2016.
In many cases these services are already cut
to the bone, cutting them further is going to
decimate services it's going to be less money
in your pocket if you work in the public sector
um there's really a risk it's going to really
threaten the fabric of our country our basic
services um and throughout all of that is going to
be justified by the idea that there is an enormous
government debt an enormous fiscal black hole so
it's very important that you understand debt we're
going to explain that today okay so government
debt the government debt has increased since
Covid from £1.9 trillion to £2.5 trillion, now
I think these really big numbers like trillions
they're very very difficult to understand so
I think the easiest way to understand the size
of the government debt is to look at it on a
per person or a per adult basis so the current
government debt has increased to about
£50,000 for every single adult in the country
okay so that's a lot, that's a big number,
£50,000how do we understand that okay
the first thing is that government debt is not
the only kind of debt that exists in the country
um there's also significant amounts of individual
debts the most obvious is Mortgage Debt so lots
of people have a mortgage maybe you have a
mortgage the average amount of mortgage debt
held by a UK adult is £35,000 so that's ontop
of the £50,000 of government debt and
there's also other debts; student debts,
consumerdebts, which add up to about £5,000
per adult in the country so for every adult
in the country you've got £50,000 of
government debt £35,000 of Mortgage Debt
another £5,000 of other debts um
so what is the total amount of debt per person in
the whole country if you add up everybody's debts
you might think 50 add 35 add 5 that's
£90,000 per person but what if I was
to tell you that the total amount of debt in the
whole country is exactly zero exactly £0
you might think okay that doesn't make sense
there's all these debts how can I add up to zero
well if I wanted to work out how much debt you
were in it wouldn't make sense for me to just
look at your mortgage right if you have a big
amount of money in a savings account I should
take your mortgage and I should also subtract
your savings rights so let's say you've got a
£100,000 mortgage but you've also got
£50,000in savings your total debt it's not
£100,000 right it's 100 minus 50 that's £50,000
well whenever you have a debt it'svery
important to understand that that debt isto
somebody the money that you owe is money that
is owned by somebody that you owe the money to so
what that means is if we look at everybody's debts
and also everybody's credits (money owed to them)
it always must add up to zero it absolutely must
because if you owe money then you must owe that
money to somebody if if you didn't owe that money
to anybody, then you wouldn't have to pay itback
right, nobody would complain that is the way that
debt works debt is always money owed by
somebody to somebody else what that means is
all of this debt that exists in the country
£50,000 per adult of government debt
£35,000 of Mortgage Debt
another £5,000 of other debts
this £90,000 of debt per person must be owned
by someone which means the average amount of
money that you control owed to you must be
£90,000 pounds per person I think this is
I think this is kind of mind-blowing when you
think about it because when you think of that
mass amount of government debt £50,000 per
person that massive amount of Mortgage Debt
£35,000 per person all the debts every single
debt you have every single debt everybody you
know has everybody's mortgages is owned by
someone and the total amount of debt must be
zero because if you owe it, somebody owns it. your
debt is an asset to somebody your debt is wealth to
somebody your debt is wealth owned by somebody
so the reason that I point this out is because
some of the ways that this debt crisis
have been described in the media
are totally insane so we talk about
a black hole a fiscal black hole
so if the government has generated a fiscal black
hole which the implication is the government
has generated an enormous debt, it must be, it
absolutely must be that somebody has generated
a fiscal massive f***ing pile of cash it's impossible
for it not to go like that and this is exactly
what I said in the first video on this channel if
you haven't watched it please go and watch it how
the rich get richer from covid19. I said
that Covid will cause a massive increase
in government debt and exactly mirroring that and
offsetting it a massive increase in private wealth
owned by rich people and if you think about it
it is not possible for those two things to exist
without one another they are the same thing if
there is a massive increase in government debt
then there must be a massive increase in private
wealth in fact the increase in government debt is
the increase in private wealth and the increase
in private wealth is the increase in government
debt the reason that the rich have got richer is
because the government owns the money the reason
the government got have got poorer is because
they're running their own money to the rich
it's so important to understand
this because the media descriptions
are insane it's not a black hole it's a transfer
of wealth from the government to the rich
and if we wanted to fix this crisis we
could easily do it by taking the money
back from the rich it's still sitting intheir
bank accounts back to the government
there was an article out a couple of weeks agowhere
the head of the IFS (The Institute of fiscalstudies)
uh which looks at government finance in
this country I think his name was Paul Johnson
said we've all got a lot poorer
we've all just got a lot poorer and
um I think he was referring to this increase in
government debt and if you sit think about that
it's an insane statement because if the government
has gotten poorer by giving a crap ton of money out
then we as a whole haven't got poorer right all that's
happened is the government has given money to the
people of the country we as a whole have not
gotten poorer the problem is that all of that
money that's been given out which is £600
billionso far since the beginning of Covid
£12,000 per adult in the country has
been accumulated by richer families and
richer households so really we as a country
have not gotten poorer at all all that has
happened is there has been a massive transfer
of cash from the government to the rich so
what I want you to understand and what I want you
to think is whenever you hear in the media the
term Fiscal black hole I want you to hear fiscal
enormous pile of money because it is not possible
for debt to grow without private wealth growing
and whenever anybody tells you how do we pay the
debt back I want you to turn around and say tothem
where has the money gone? who has the moneynow?
why don't we tax them? because the reality
of the situation here is that £600,000,000,000
which has been lost by the government is exactly
pound for pound offset by 600 billion pounds
accumulated by the rich of this country that is
how debt works you cannot owe debt to nobody if
you have increased your debt by 600 billion pounds
someone has increased their wealth by 600 billion
pounds that is twelve thousand pounds per adult
if you do not have your £12,000 somebodyhas it
and it is in most people's cases the rich
that have that because we can see statistically
that that money has been accumulated by the rich
if you don't understand why go and watch the first
video on this channel how the rich get rich from
covid-19 which predicted exactly everything that
has happened; that government debt would increase,
that private wealth of the rich will increase, that
inflation would increase, that asset price would
increase, that house prices would go up and that
we would see a massive crisis of inflation and
living standards this was exactly predictable
because during covid £600 billion wentfrom
the government to the rich so you need to
understand that is not a black hole that is a pile
of money sitting in the bank accounts of the rich
austerity is not an unavoidable choice it is
something that we are choosing to do because
the government which is currently ruled by a man
whose father-in-law is one of the richest men in
the entire world is choosing not to tax the rich
who have just seen the biggest and fastest ever
increase in wealth but instead to raise your taxes
to cut your pay and to cut your public services
every single pound in that fiscal black hole is
sitting right now in the bank accounts of the rich
if we took that back there's no need for austerity
if we took that back we could give every single
adult in the country £12,000 imagine that
£12,000 in your bank account that is not making
the rich poor that is just making them exactly
as rich as they were three years ago before covid
every single thing that is happening here was
predictable at the beginning of covid if you
understood the massive increase in inequality
and massive cash transfer that would go from
the government to the rich if you don't believe
me go and watch my first video how the rich get
richer from covid-19 because everything that
has happened I have exactly predicted would
happen this austerity is not essential there is
no fiscal black hole every single pound needed
by the government is held by the rich and
this austerity is a choice but a government
led by one of the richest men in the world we
don't need to do this we don't need austerity
every time you hear fiscal black hole think fiscal
pile money if anybody questions you send them to
this channel show them this video make them watch
the first video how the rich get rich from Covid 19
Austerity is a choice while you are struggling
to feed your kids and heat your homes the rich are
getting richer at the fastest rate in history
we could stop this at the drop of the hat if
we chose to tax the rich and we have to do it
thank you like the video share subscribe thanks
money currently is Flowing from the
government to the rich leaving the
government with big powers of debt and the
rich would be part of money there's one other
thing they can do with that mass amount
of income they can buy your mom's house
[Music]